reflections/week05/02.md, before:

# MongoDb Relationships

![replace_me](https://codeworks.blob.core.windows.net/public/assets/img/illustrations/placeholder.svg)

> **📖 [MongoDb Relationships](https://codeworksacademy.com/fs-student-guide/resources/wk5/02-Relationships)**

## Questions

1. What are the three types of relationships?
The three types of relationships are One-to-One (1:1), One-to-Many (1:N), and Many-to-Many (N:M).
1:1 - a single relationship between two entities.
1:N - a relationship where one side can have more than one relationship, but the other side only has one. 
N:M - a relationship between two entities that can also have relationships with other entities. 

2. What are the benefits of the traditional `linking` of relationships instead of `Embedding`.
Some benefits of using the traditional "linking" of relationships instead of "embedding" is

3. What are some of the challenges faced when deciding how to manage a many-to-many relationship that ultimately drive your decision on how to create it?

## Afternoon Assignment Link

**[Repo](https://github.com/JordanlDiaz/<ASSIGNMENT_REPO>)**

Identify at least 1 takeaway from today's assignment

Commit message:

Wk5Day2 journal complete and node notes updated

reflections/week05/02.md, after:

# MongoDb Relationships

![replace_me](https://codeworks.blob.core.windows.net/public/assets/img/illustrations/placeholder.svg)

> **📖 [MongoDb Relationships](https://codeworksacademy.com/fs-student-guide/resources/wk5/02-Relationships)**

## Questions

1. What are the three types of relationships?
The three types of relationships are One-to-One (1:1), One-to-Many (1:N), and Many-to-Many (N:M).
1:1 - a single relationship between two entities where the author has a single address and the address only has one author. 
1:N - a relationship where one side can have more than one relationship, but the other side only has one. 
N:M - a relationship between two entities that can also have relationships with other entities. 

2. What are the benefits of the traditional `linking` of relationships instead of `Embedding`.
While embedding is the preferred method for 1:1 relationships, linking is preferred with 1:N and N:M. Some benefits of using "linking" instead of "embedding" is that with 1:N relationships that use linking on larger applications, its possible for the document to grow too large and affect its write performance. Using linking in these instances prevents these issues. 

3. What are some of the challenges faced when deciding how to manage a many-to-many relationship that ultimately drive your decision on how to create it?
There are many ways to use embedding with queries with many-to-many relationships, which can make it more challenging to decide how to create the model. Some things to consider are if the many-to-many relationship is uneven (where one way embedding is preferred so as not to risk making the document too large), and if you think there will be several relationships that will be hard to manage (where third collection embedding is preferred because it allows you to break down the data further).

## Afternoon Assignment Link

**[Repo](https://github.com/JordanlDiaz/gregslistAPI)**

Identify at least 1 takeaway from today's assignment
Today was definitely a day where I felt the Dunning Kruger affect again after feeling pretty good about last week. There was a lot of new information between mongodb, auth0, and postman, and at times I struggled in lecture to keep caught up with all the movement between our vs code and the new tools we are using. I also couldn't figure out why postman wasn't working for me until I downloaded it to desktop, so I want to remember that the desktop functionality is better in postman. 
Once in lab, things felt a lot more straightforward and I was able to complete most of the assignment. A few errors I made that I want to remember: don't forget api in the localhost url in postman (silly mistake), make sure all functions have a return or you won't actually get back what you requested, the logic behind the update functions in services makes sense for the most part, but I definitely need to practice edit functions more, and I need to get clarification on how to update the authorized ip address so that I can keep working at home on things.
