reflections/week02/02.md, before:

# JavaScript Functions

![functions](https://bcw.blob.core.windows.net/public/img/function-anatomy.jpg)

> **📖 [JavaScript Functions](https://codeworksacademy.com/fs-student-guide/resources/wk2/02-Functions)**

## Questions

1. What are the three ways to syntactically write a function? What are the differences in how the function acts (if any)?

The three ways to sytactically write a function are:
1. function name(parameters) {  }
A function declaration is where it defines a named function. These are hoisted to the top of their scope, and can therefore be used before they are actually defined. 
2. let name = function(parameters) {  }
A function expression is where it defines a named or unnamed function. These are different from function declarations because they are not hoisted, which means they cannot be used before they have been defined.
3. let name = (parameters) => {  }
An arrow function expressionis where it creates a shorter, more concise way of writing a function expression.This type of function does not create its own "this" value.

2. What is the difference between Parameters and Arguments?

Parameters and arguments are similar, but have a key difference. Parameters are the names placed in the function definition (), while arguments are values received by the function from each parameter when a function is invoked. This means if we want a function to get a value for its parameter, it has to be done as an argument.

Parameters example:
function twoParams(param1, param2) {  }
Argument example: 
twoParams(arg1, arg2);

3. What are higher order functions? Can you provide an example?

Higher order functions are functions that take other functions as a parameter because they are returning those functions, rather than just a value. This means they are essentially functions that act on other functions. An example that we used today is forEach() which we used to access each package object in the array in order to perform many other functions.

## Afternoon Assignment Link

**[Repo](https://github.com/JordanlDiaz/<ASSIGNMENT_REPO>)**

Identify at least 1 takeaway from today's assignment
Right now I better able to

Commit message:

updated js notes, wk2day2 journal

reflections/week02/02.md, after:

# JavaScript Functions

![functions](https://bcw.blob.core.windows.net/public/img/function-anatomy.jpg)

> **📖 [JavaScript Functions](https://codeworksacademy.com/fs-student-guide/resources/wk2/02-Functions)**

## Questions

1. What are the three ways to syntactically write a function? What are the differences in how the function acts (if any)?

The three ways to sytactically write a function are:
1. function name(parameters) {  }
A function declaration is where it defines a named function. These are hoisted to the top of their scope, and can therefore be used before they are actually defined. 
2. let name = function(parameters) {  }
A function expression is where it defines a named or unnamed function. These are different from function declarations because they are not hoisted, which means they cannot be used before they have been defined.
3. let name = (parameters) => {  }
An arrow function expressionis where it creates a shorter, more concise way of writing a function expression.This type of function does not create its own "this" value.

2. What is the difference between Parameters and Arguments?

Parameters and arguments are similar, but have a key difference. Parameters are the names placed in the function definition (), while arguments are values received by the function from each parameter when a function is invoked. This means if we want a function to get a value for its parameter, it has to be done as an argument.

Parameters example:
function twoParams(param1, param2) {  }
Argument example: 
twoParams(arg1, arg2);

3. What are higher order functions? Can you provide an example?

Higher order functions are functions that take other functions as a parameter because they are returning those functions, rather than just a value. This means they are essentially functions that act on other functions. An example that we used today is forEach() which we used to access each package object in the array in order to perform many other functions.

Other examples are filter() and sort().

## Afternoon Assignment Link

**[Repo](https://github.com/JordanlDiaz/warehouse-manager)**

Identify at least 1 takeaway from today's assignment
Right now I feel better able to read and interpret already written js code, rather than come up with it fully on my own. The syntax is more difficult to understand and I have to refer to my notes/references a lot in order to make sense of the steps of what to do. I think the big thing is just getting in more practice so that I become more familiar with the syntax. The big takeaway is just to make sure I code small/test small so that I'm constantly aware of the state of the functions and if they are working properly.
